# CASEN

Chile National Socioeconomic Characterization Survey ([CASEN](
http://ghdx.healthdata.org/record/chile-national-socioeconomic-characterization-survey-2015-2016))
is a publicly available data set.

Chile's official data source for poverty statistics is the National Socioeconomic CharacterizationSurvey (Casen) - a survey sponsored every two or three years by the Ministry of Social Development(henceforth  referred  to  as  the  Ministry)  since  1987  with  sample  in  most  of  the  comunas  (thesmallest territorial entity in Chile.)  The demand for various socioeconomic data at the comunalevel is relevant for the design and evaluation of public policies, especially because municipalities(decentralized  institution  responsible  for  the  local  administration  of  each  comuna)  are  the  firstlevel of contact for the Chileans with their (local) government.

In Chile, direct design-based estimates of poverty rates were routinely released for the nation, allregions and all the self-representing comunas in each Casen sample.  The need for socioeconomicdata at lower levels of geography also found its way into the Chilean legislation in 2007 when anamendment to the law of the Fondo Comun Municipal (FCM) established a new set of indicators forits fund allocation algorithm among comunas.  The regulation passed in 2009 required the Ministryto provide poverty rate estimates for all comunas in Chile.  In 2010, the Ministry produced for the first time poverty rate estimates for all 345 comunas in Chile using both standard design-basedand the Ministry-PNUD synthetic method.

The Commission's concerns motivated the Ministry to convene a Ministry-PNUD working group in2011 with the goal of developing a new methodology aimed at improving the precision of comunalevel  estimates.   After  reviewing  the  literature  on  Small  Area  Estimation  (SAE),  the  Ministrydecided  to  develop  a  methodology  that  could  take  advantage  of  the  Casen  data  and  relevantadministrative records available in Chile.  In 2011, estimates of comuna level poverty rates wereobtained  using  the  SAE  method  for  all  comunas  with  sample  in  Casen  2009  and  the  syntheticMinistry-PNUD method for comunas without sample in Casen 2009.
